From Hollywood, California, at one of the few remaining shows at Meltdown Comics, Harmontown is now in session.
For your abject entertainment pleasure, Spencer Crittenden everybody.
Spencer, stuck in the stage like an antelope.
Oh yeah. And the mayor of Harmontown, Mr. Dan Harmon.
What's this? The cylinder.
It's a joint.
What's written on the mic stand? Is it funny?
No, I mean it's certainly, look I don't want to judge whoever did this. Is it you?
Well the joint, I mean I think we're even now.
I'm a slow reader so the top of the show was me taking this all in.
Dear Deanna, I was hoping to ask you some time travel questions.
I know a bunch of your recent shows have been busy. I would love a couple minutes to chat sincerely, Michael.
And you mean on stage, like if we have a moment we'll have you up and we're just at my place? You want to hang out?
I think it, uh...
But I do think, I do think...
Tavern on the Green in New York on Sunday after.
But I did think, I mean I think given your goals you played everything right. You gave me a joint and then there was a note and it's like you're letting me have control of the relationship. Thank you, Michael.
That's very nice.
So I'm a forgetful person but I'll be looking at you for the next two hours and maybe I'll remember.
Michael, home brews beer, right?
I put all that beer in the fridge.
Oh, okay. Because I thought it just appeared from the...
Because you have time travel questions? I don't know.
My mind was racing trying to figure out like if I knew a guy had time travel questions I could have done some prank where I like had a bucket fall on me.
But then like planted a... I'm not sure. I'm not good at practical jokes.
This is a terrible beginning to a show. It's not your fault. It's mine.
Alright, so thank you for coming on your Sunday. My name is Dan Harmon. This is Jeff Davis.
We do a podcast called Harmontown.
A little throne.
What's these glasses? It's like am I really doing this? Am I wearing these? Yes.
I've been doing them. We're wearing them for the last couple of days.
Well, I think I look good. Fine. Who cares? I look like Steve Bannon.
Did you know Steve Bannon sounds kind of like you? You look at Steve Bannon and you think he must sound like,
Oh, there's all these Jews.
But he sounds...
But he sounds kind of like, all these Jews.
He's like, I don't want to get off on a tangent here with these Jews.
It's a weird, it was striking to hear. I don't know.
I almost felt it. I walked by a mirror today and I swear, I was wearing a checkered shirt.
Like Steve Bannon and I have the same fucking wardrobe, same amount of gray in the hair, same length hair,
same, like we're both, we're both pickling ourselves, like, both exploding into blood vessels and just like,
like, both just balls of fucking shit.
And I caught, like in the peripheral vision, I walked by an unexpected mirror. I didn't know it was a mirror.
And I swear, my first thought was, Steve Bannon!
Like a weird, like, that's how much like him I look if I wear a checkered shirt.
So I got out my head and I look like Tom Cruise again.
I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, fuck.
Episode title.
That's just going to be one of those nights. I, I, I, I, I, I just got back from Portland and, uh,
Did you fly in today?
I flew back home today and then I had a four o'clock meeting about trying to get that movie made with the Michael Jackson and the chimp
and with the Tyka and the YTT and the, like, we're, we're trying to make that happen and, and so we had a Sunday,
like, drink session with Power, Power Hollywood trying to get that together.
Then I came back home and just, just enough time to, like, like, joyless masturbate.
Like, just, just sad, just like, like, like, like.
What was the, uh, what was going on with the joyless masturbation?
Just frenetic, just frantic, like, the pace was just like, like, it wasn't, there was no, like, confident stroke there.
Is that what you want to know? Is that what you're asking?
I, I, I, I want, I want you to tell us what the details are.
It's like, do you guys ever think about, I mean, we not, you know, how many of you, uh, cover the camera on your laptop?
We got, we got, let's say, let's say, like, 15, 20, actually strong 30%.
Yeah.
Um, I, I, I, I, I, every once in a while I'll cover it if I, I'll put, like, a breathe right strip on it from the night before.
It's like, I go back and forth because I'm just like, I'm just like, it's part of me is just like, yeah, choke on it.
Choke on it.
Like, like, like, yeah, watch me jerk off.
Government.
Like, like, like, like, watch every frame.
Like, you never know.
Like, I don't know, put little, like, teasers in there so they have to watch all of me jerking off.
Like, let's go like, all right, let's do this one for ISIS, maybe.
We can do it for a very important phone call, but first.
What if you like, like, put decals on yourself like a NASCAR car with like, like Pepsi and Firestone tires.
Well, I don't know.
And then you think like, well, are they going to blackmail you?
Like, that ship is sailed, right?
Like, if you're an outspoken activist, let's say, if you were like a modern day threat to the regime or something and you jerked off in front of your laptop,
would they release your jerk off?
Like, like, your home.
Would they send it to you in an envelope and go, you look kind of silly when you jerk off.
So maybe black lives matter a little less than you think they should.
But no one would be fazed by that.
They'd be stoked, right?
They'd be like, like, okay, well, I do look silly.
That's for sure.
But, but like, now I'm like martyred because they, yeah.
So I mean, I just, I just, I mostly.
We all, we all text each other with a picture of you laying your bed with your balls out.
Like, that's like.
Yeah.
I'm kind of part of it is like, yeah, it's like to take the enemy's ammunition away.
Exactly.
Like, look at my balls.
Look at my tiny dick.
Look at my gross hairy hedgehog body.
Look at my, look at my shoulder hair.
Listen to my horrible thoughts.
Like, I don't care.
I hate everybody.
I hate myself.
I hate the planet.
Meh.
Now I can say whatever I want.
Fuck the president.
I did it.
I won.
I don't know.
Well, anyways, I was in Portland.
Do you think Trump listens to our podcast?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
No, he's like notorious for his like, yeah, he watches everything.
His radar dish is huge.
Yeah.
He's always, I think one of his most profound quotes that you never hear quoted is he said,
he says, you know, if you're not hearing your opposition's voice, they might not be hearing
yours.
He never said that.
Actually, that was said, I think, or I'm not sure if it was said by, but we're going to
be talking about that.
We have a documentarian filmmaker that movie I kept talking about, Accidental Courtesy,
that follows Daryl Davis around the guy that shot that movie's here.
And this isn't me introducing him.
Yes, it is.
Let me introduce him.
Let's bring out our new friend, Matt Ornstein.
Would you like a drink?
I b-wide my own b, but thank you so much.
Okay.
The offer.
So just out of curiosity, how many people have seen this movie just because I had mentioned
it today?
All right.
Okay, good.
Given the grosses, I find that hard to believe.
Let's start there.
How is the documentary racket these days?
I literally don't know where to keep the cash.
This was your first movie, right?
Like your first documentary, was it your first movie as well?
I'd done a couple long-form documentary shorts, one of which was a narrative hybrid.
So it was actors, everyone else was a real person.
That was about the last space shuttle launch.
And that did okay for itself.
So that kind of led to this, I guess.
Did you know that this was going to take about three years?
And if so, I follow up questions.
And if so, why was it worth it?
Go.
Well, I actually did not.
Matt, while Dan does that bit, for our listeners, get the mic right in your lips because it's
like eating.
You're going to put the mic by the ice?
No, no.
Get it right there.
Yeah, eat the mic.
Right there.
I actually thought we could do it very quickly.
I was supposed to direct like a high school movie, actually, like a good one, but a fairly
normal movie.
And I'd cleared all that time, the pre-production, the shoot time, and then it delayed.
And so I thought, oh, we'll just knock out the Daryl Davis things.
So you thought maybe three months, six months?
Six months a year, I thought it would be cake.
Because that seems reasonable.
I mean, the movie opens with him telling a story that just sort of whiplashes you because
everything that you think you understand about how bigotry and race is supposed to work in
America is subverted by this very simple story in the beginning, which is, your throat sounds
like it might be a little tender, so I'll tell the story.
But he tells us, there's the KKK's coming to town, and they don't have a bus, and he
has a bus, and he lets them use his bus.
And you're kind of like, wait, what's going on?
I don't understand what's happening.
It sort of leaves you hanging because it doesn't, you can't understand it.
This guy, Daryl Davis, that's sort of how he started down this road of this very unique,
individual form of activism where he very simply be friends, racists.
Not in an attempt to, he doesn't come at them and tell them how they're wrong.
He doesn't even say let's debate about, he just makes friends with them, and then slowly
over time, they tend to retire from racism.
I describe it like he fights a war of erosion or like, you know, it's like the 100 years
battle, he knows eventually that it will work out, but it's not a hard sell by any means.
The opening you're talking about I love, I realized pretty quickly that we only had one
chance to sort of use, the cold open could be very special because you don't necessarily
know what his deal is and you immediately have to recontextualize all this information
right off the bat.
And then as the film goes on, it sort of takes on a different meaning.
Yeah, and then the meeting with the goddess as Joseph Campbell would put it, like for
me watching that documentary is that then he goes and he's in Baltimore, correct?
Baltimore.
And, and there's these very like smart, like dedicated career activists, Kwame Rose and
Torek Torek, Kwame Rose and Jaycee Falk.
Is Jaycee Falk the older guy?
Jaycee is the older guy.
And I had already described the scene to them, which is that they sit down across the table
from this guy and you've been watching the whole time, you've been watching these kind
of Jim Norton-y looking like KKK guys.
I'm not, Jim Norton's not racist, I'm just saying, like they're just putting a picture
in your head.
That's great casting.
That's one guy at the diner, right?
You'd cast Jim Norton as that guy.
You're watching over and over again, you're watching him sit down with these guys and
you're kind of like, it's, again, it's confounding because you don't understand, like, well,
wait, how is, I don't understand how racism works then.
I don't, if there's exceptions to it, then why don't you stop being racist and then
sooner, and then they go, well, they eventually do.
They just need black friends.
I mean, it's the reality though, a lot of them have never had any black friends.
So in the absence of real information, you can tell them they have horns and it flies
for a little bit.
And it becomes more of an expression of how much they care about their neighborhood or
their family or themselves or their whatever.
And there's this thing they've never met.
And that's the question that Daryl keeps asking.
That's his thesis question is, how can you hate me if you've never met me?
And it carries him through that.
And it's like, oh, now these times are upon us.
These conversations are so important.
And he sits down with these guys, these younger millennial activists.
And in very short time, they're, they're, they're having a harder time seeing eye to
eye than these more performance kind of like, hey, well, baseball, apple pie, I'll tell
you, if you lack Elvis, then I like you.
Say cheese.
And I don't mean to, I don't mean to demean it or trivialize it, but it's like now it's
time to have a real conversation.
And it breaks down pretty quickly.
And he, you know, and those guys don't, it doesn't get like shouty, but those guys get
up and go, you know what, can't do it anymore.
After they kind of call him out on what are you doing and what is, what good is it doing?
Like, like, like, what has it changed?
You've been doing it so long.
And isn't it almost the thing that killed me was when one of the two of them said, it
was like, it's a fetish.
Yeah.
Which, which is something everyone had thought at some point a little bit because a fetish
doesn't necessarily mean what he does as an invaluable, it just means that he has grown
to.
He's fixated on it.
He's fixated on this thing.
And you're just a tiny bit of background.
Sorry, I'm a little.
So he grew up in the sort of utopian school environment where there really wasn't racism
like we experience and take for granted here.
So he comes back to the States and he does not, it just does not compute.
And he wants to know what the deal is.
And that's sort of what opens the door on all of this.
And it goes on to have, you know, greater meaning for him.
And he's a musician, right?
He's a musician.
He's played with Chuck Berry, rest in peace and Little Richard and all kinds of great
musicians.
He's really amazing at that.
And that's often his, his way of communicating was initially through music.
Like, you know, he'd be playing somewhere and people wouldn't want to come talk to him.
It makes him a celebrity if you're some little honky-tonk and you've been on Letterman with
Chuck Berry.
Right.
And when you are that dedicated to music, you know, you, you, that's another reason why
you, you tend to not see the things that get us tied up.
Not that, not that I'm a person that gets tied up in it, but we should bring up our
black friend, Brandon Johnson.
That's going to black out.
Brandon Johnson, Brandon Johnson, he's our blackest friend.
Blackest friend in the world, Brandon Johnson.
Oh, I love that fucking theme song.
Good God.
That's a good fucking suit, Brandon.
You did it again.
Thank you so much, Mr. Davis.
Now you guys both look sharp.
Jeff Davis, honestly, just always impeccable.
Me, I'm like, I'm going to cut a couch up and take the fabric off, maybe rip out the
interior of a 78 Oldsmobile Cutlass and then wear that to the Harmontown Show.
Well, you have a great tailor then.
Thank you.
I mean, I, I don't know.
Dent worse nightmare as the show is you and me talking about suits.
I mean, in his defense, he did, he said he knew what a Henley was though.
I'll give him points for, he's like, my girlfriend, I heard my girlfriend say it.
No, no, no.
It's a big deal.
Yeah, clothes.
So one of the suits is better than the other suit, but you disagree on that?
I mean, what?
No, no, we're just, we're just admiring each other.
It's two men admiring the sartorial splendor that is Brandon Johnson and Jeff Davis.
All right.
Well, anyway, I just, I just wanted to get him out because I didn't want him like waiting
around while we talked about this stuff, but because Brandon's like, he's a, he's a,
he's a, he's the people love him.
He's the, he's the.
That's very nice to you, Dan Harmon.
I really, I gotta say, I love doing the show.
People have been so nice to me since I started doing it.
So thank everybody so much for the nice words.
Because it's difficult.
This is difficult soup to get into.
It's not, I thought it was, it's going to be like Oprah.
Easy.
Bring out some animals and see some animals, but no, every week is some black shit.
No, our show for you is the, is the first two acts of get out.
Right.
I haven't seen it.
Stop.
I mean, I, I already know too much, you know.
All right.
Back, back to this, this scene in, in this, in this, in this cafe in Baltimore, wherever
it was.
So, so, I, I read the short interview with you where you were talking about the very
understandable dilemma of this guy's been doing this his whole life.
What's the documentary going to be?
You thought it was six months.
Now it's, I don't know how long into that it is, but it's like you're, you're, you
can't just make up a third act for a documentary.
It's like a hard thing to like paint a picture and like have it also feel like a movie.
And we know he's not going to like save a kitten from under a car or like, like, you
know, punch his dad or something.
But, but then in this, in this moment, when he's meeting these, you know, activists who,
and it's like, they're all good guys, they're all heroes, and they can't see eye to eye.
And at one point, one of the young guys says, before he gets up from the table, because
he's, he's talking about how, you know, questioning what the efficacy of what Daryl's doing.
Which also the guy from the Southern Poverty Law Center does as well.
He basically says, we appreciate what you're doing in single portion servings, but we're
dealing bulk when it comes to anti-semitism and racism.
We'd like to clear the fucking decks.
We don't want to just spend 25 years making a few racist friends.
But, but, but that, and that's the theme that these guys come upon.
And it's like, it's hard to, and it's hard, it's hard to watch because it like removes
all of your sense of there's a solution here somewhere.
It's just in a box I haven't opened yet.
And I'm a, I'm a fragile white privileged viewer of this documentary.
I know the secrets to race and racism.
And I have, I have, I have numerous black friends and I'm going to like, I'm going to
watch this and I'm going to find out the truth.
But then it breaks down.
Those guys get up respectfully.
Now we don't want to, we don't really want to talk to you anymore.
And, and, and, and at one point Daryl says, don't you guys think that, do you guys not
think that the system can change, that these racists can change?
And one of them kind of reflexively says no.
And that to me was like the meeting with the goddess where it was like, oh shit, we're,
we're at war with ourselves because we, we, we, we, we were understandably like arguing
between left and right, black and white and, and, and all this stuff.
And, but there's this fight that we keep forgetting we're having, which is the fight
between people that want to fight and people that don't want fighting to keep happening.
And I don't, I'm not saying that activists are pro-conflict.
But they are, it's the language they speak of.
They're, they're, they're, they're dealing with the issue in that language.
They, yeah, they're, they're like, arrest me because, because if I'm afraid of getting
arrested, then, you know, then that's a fucking problem.
Then that, that's what you wanted.
So now I'm going to make you arresting me part of the painting that I'm putting in
this museum.
And then it's like, okay, that's brilliant and good and effective.
But at what point do you go, oh shit, what?
I don't, and you just walk away from this whole thing feeling like your soul wants to
puke.
I mean, but in a good way.
That's called the catharsis.
If I had, if I could put them on the box.
I mean, honestly, I can, I mean, that's a various you read on it and I, I'm fond of
saying about that scene that everyone in it is right and everyone's also wrong.
They are correct.
The younger activists are correct that the stakes are different for them.
They're watching their friends be killed in front of them.
And Daryl's solution is not something that seems immediate enough to them, but they're
also wrong that people can't change, which is hopefully kind of the big theme of the
movie.
I mean, to make it murkier and even less satisfying.
For me, what I've really come to through this movie is racism.
Racism is a social disease that is related to economics largely.
I mean, it's like, it's horribly unfulfilling us that sounds the factors that lead someone
in an inner city to join a gang or the factors that lead someone in a rural area to join
something like the Klan.
The same lack of education, lack of options, the same broken homes.
And so when we get into that scene, we're kind of butting up against that.
Like the real issue here has to do with education and opportunity and a symptom is these, these,
you know, KKK and skinhead guys.
Right.
Because they're, because their philosophies don't hold up.
If they sit down for a grilled cheese with a friendly black guy, they within five minutes
are saying, well, I don't.
And if that's all it took, then like how, how solid was your belief so?
Yeah.
And so then you go, okay, this is dumb.
And then you go, okay, there's a lot of dumb people.
And then, and then I, I, it's like, like, like, like we, a question that I want, I mean,
and any time you can, you can go, look, I made a documentary.
I'm not talking about this shit.
But I was curious driving over here.
I was thinking about my thoughts on the issue.
And I was like, is there, I guess circling around the question, like one, one question
to start with would be among white people is liberalism, it gets easier the richer you
are, right?
That's not to say that the richer you are as a white guy, the more prone you are to
be liberal.
The statistics don't bear that out.
However, show me a white liberal and I'll show you a support system.
I mean, I think like most things, it's probably easier to be wealthy and white and do them.
It's easier.
What?
But it's.
I'm sorry.
Hey, Brandon, you should totally check it out, man.
I was playing basketball and trying to get on America's Got Talent.
But it really beg, I mean, that, that, that, that takes you down a scary rabbit hole,
which is, okay, so maybe I'm just not technically racist because my parents had a little less
meth.
Like, like, like, like, like, I think I was born, you know, it's just like when you start
to get it, those are the thoughts that really haunt you when you go like, well, okay, so
I had a neighbor with a swimming pool and I had a 3.0 GPA and I lived in the suburb
and I, you know, we weren't, there were, there were no bars on our windows.
So, and I had, I went to integrated schools and so, but it was like, I guess the thing
I'm circling here is like, so we have this, the big problem that we have in our country
is neither race nor is it bigotry nor is it, it's, it's, it's the fact that we refuse
to address class, we refuse to address poverty and that where there is poverty, there are
things like that don't affect us as much like people believing the earth is flat, people
believing that there's no sun, that it gets eaten by a turtle at night, like those things
just don't affect how they hire and fire and who they shoot and like what, what words
they say on, on Larry King, like, like, like, I don't know, they're mixing a lot of things
there.
You're like, why would there be a poor white person on Larry King that believes turtles
eat the sun?
Well, they're, they're, they're clearly there because they're a Trump science advisor.
Right.
Because it's hard to find, yeah, you gotta find that, you gotta.
Snap.
Equal time.
Yeah, I don't know what, I don't have a question, I was just babbling about it.
No, but you're, you're babbling in the right direction.
It really is.
Thank you.
I told you fucking, I heard you fucking doubting me.
Because we refuse.
Honky pieces of shit.
You tell them.
Because we refuse to talk about class in a realistic way, we leave the door open for
people like Trump to talk about it in a way to their advantage.
Right.
More black people and poor white people have a lot more in common than rich white people
and poor white people at the end of the day.
But.
Like the color of their skin, I don't understand.
No, I'm kidding, I'm sorry.
Yeah, you know, it's, this is the age old thing.
We all know it too.
Like even the dumb people know it, but they don't feel it.
Well, you, you do this thing collateral damage where you're like, we're gonna lose a hundred
thousand people, but we're gonna advance 20 million.
So you'll do things like you'll create a nice thin poor white line next to a large black
community and then you'll keep super rich people further away.
It's so fucking primitive.
If you look in Los Angeles, all the rich people live up high.
The most monkey shit that we do and you want to say like, when are we going to finally
do this, but there's something about the human race that we're like, man, we got these places
where we take people that get sick and we just put them in this place, man, it's called
a hospital.
We devote four of those floors to titty, titty augmentation and then one floor to cancer
research.
I think the same as with race is that we are, we're super trying to figure it out still.
Racism is kind of complex, but it's really not that complex, but it works.
It works without a head.
So it's, it's difficult to stop it, correct?
I think that is absolutely true, but I will also.
You better man.
I didn't just, I didn't just rip off Jesse Jackson for nothing.
You are so aggressive, but also so articulate.
I love it.
It's so articulate.
You know, I do think on some level, um, it does seem like something that will not be
with us forever.
And I know that sounds very optimistic, but if you look at it by age distribution, well,
you know, the,
Michael, stop it.
Obviously the internet is in many ways a dark and terrifying thing, but it also, the amount
of empathy it generates, you know, that they say that overnight, um, with the invention
of the Gutenberg printing press, the, the murder rate in the world went down.
Right.
Because you could suddenly understand what it was like to be someone else.
Yeah.
And the internet is that, is that times a million, just not in the YouTube comments.
Is that like, like technology advances and then that like parabolic like curve, like,
like information grows so fast, like, I think what they call that thing where like we're
all like, we're going to have the computing power of a human brain in our phone like four
weeks from now, because that's, that's, that's the rate things are going at.
But is racism or sexism actually moving at a similar rate?
Like, I don't think it is.
I feel like, I feel like I'll handle this.
I almost feel like, like, like everybody take five.
It almost seems like, I think, is that Turing's, is that, is that an accurate to call it Turing's
curve or whatever you're talking about, the Turing's thing is that one day the computers
will be more human.
Moore's law.
Right.
So some of this room knows Moore's law.
Okay.
Got it.
All right.
So I didn't hear it, but let's, but, but it almost seems like that's going to outpace
like it's like, like, like I have had conversations lately where it's almost like we're starting
to admit to ourselves that we short of ripping our flesh off of our faces and, and throw
gender in there as well.
Like we can't, we're, we're just fucking idiots about it.
Like we receive signals that overpower us and the progressive among us are simply compensating
and things that we always, these bioengineered for fucking barbarism bodies.
And that we're quickly approaching the point where you, there'll be an app that just makes
you not racist because it'll, and it won't be because we become evolved.
I thought that was porn hub.
I mean, yeah.
I can't hate those people.
They're fucking beautiful.
It looks good in them swirls.
That's two, that's two or more colors in a rolling ball of fuck, but you know, statistically
there's truth that as well, like eventually, I mean, it really is, it's all blending and
the numbers are changing and the demographics are changing and like the day when a non-college
educated white man could run at all is definitely the sun is setting on that.
And that's part of what you're seeing is the last stand.
It's these spasms because it's like, because it actually is.
We talk often about, oh, a guy in Kentucky doesn't have any Muslim friends or whatever.
Well, yes and no, I think what's happening is that it's, it, there's this Rubicon being
crossed this, this, this, where, yeah, but thanks to the internet, this, that person
in Kentucky feels like it's at his doorstep now.
He in a way that he never felt it before and there was actually a kind of like strange,
like symbiosis between the heartland and the cities before there was always possible when
they were separated by horse distance.
And it was like, oh, my cousin's coming to town.
He's a little bit of a hillbilly.
I mean, you know, there's been, there's been studies for I think 15 years now about the
level of mistrust of people in the middle of the country of the coast and all the media
related.
Yeah.
Man, it's been there.
We just kind of, yeah.
David Wong wrote this really great essay kind of summing that up in terms of our popular
culture.
It was, it just all goes back to this whole thing that's, you know, Hunger Games and all
that stuff.
It's like we, in America in particular, we love the mythology of people in the country
are simple folk.
They like to chew on their long grass things and, and they're awful clever.
They're like leprechauns.
They got, they got salt of the earth wisdom and they got tricks they can pull and they're,
they're the heart of the whole country.
And then meanwhile in the cities, I mean, we're in the cities propagate this myth.
We look at ourselves as not city folk.
We look at ourselves as country folk that move to the city.
And so we write movies and TV shows about how well if you live in the city, you're this
out of touch, pasty faced person with a mole sticker on your face and the heart shaped
hair and you're like, oh, what, what this next contestant will fight the laser shock
for, for food.
I love it.
And we understand that that is the, that's this, that that has been, it's the outlaw
hero versus the righteous hero.
It's the idea of cities coming up and like, oh, the sheriff's important, but so is the
Han Solo guy mixing genres.
I'm still following it.
So I guess that's just me going, oh, I know what you're talking about.
And I can say it too, but longer, I think that, I think that it's like, it's obviously
a cynical writing device, but it's also hopeful that maybe like if we threw off the shackles
of the city, we'd be better, more honest, straightforward people.
Matt, could you make a documentary about Dan Harmon called mixed metaphors?
I have some availability, but it does feel like, is there, is there a chance that actually
just because city living is getting more and more of a, you know, like we're, the money's
thinning out.
The millennial generation is, they're getting by unless they're rich, they are richer.
There is more money privately now, because people got super rich in the past 10 years.
So that's who's buying houses in San Francisco and Los Angeles and Chicago millennials.
That's why, yeah, those pieces of shit because Dan never trusted them, they're all around
us.
Play it cool, Jackson.
All I got to do is put out some records.
I think millennials have just been pretending to live with their parents and not have a
future.
I think it's like a long con.
They also, they also love racist stuff.
They'd love it, they pretend to get outraged by stuff, but they don't.
Tell me more, please.
All of our crowd, millennials, they come to the show.
What are they doing?
Like you guys, you get so, you're so afraid of us saying the wrong thing, but you keep
coming every week.
We're going to offend you every time.
Well, I think I would, they're not here to defend themselves, but I would say that's
because it's like, it's not like NASCAR where you're like, I hope I see a car flip over
and have a disaster.
I think it's more like, if in NASCAR a car flipping over made the car stronger, if a
burning Dan Harmon crawled out of every wreck and went like, now I'm made of asbestos and
I'll handle those curves a little slower.
I would watch that.
They do.
I think I'm America's, like Gen X, like unintentionally racist and sexist white knight uncle.
Because I didn't get married when I was, or I did get married, that's right.
Because I didn't get married and have kids on the schedule that would now have me have
a 20-year-old kid, like I'm just like this weird drunk, fury, bucey uncle at their wedding,
you know, going like, oh, who are you kids talking about, race?
There's the thing, you got your black people and your white people, is that still a thing?
Think about it spiritually.
Oh, uncle Gary Bucey.
That was a fucking wicking Gary Bucey impression.
You don't know you have one until you try it.
I'm Gary Bucey.
I lost it, I lost it.
Very familiar feelings starting to come over me.
I think even he has trouble these days keeping it in.
But anyways, yeah.
The Twitter's become a sewer, it just upsets me, I can't get off of it.
I have this, but I also get these doses of pure uplifting optimism, and I guess it's
just, I'm 44, so I'm always going to funnel it through race and gender and all this stuff,
but it's like, I'll see, I'll go like, it's black women, black young women are going to
save us because they haven't, like, on Twitter they're like, they, I'm like, I'm dehumanizing
by putting them in a group and it's like, if you know a black woman and she's a piece
of shit, that's good, good, good.
I'm not dehumanizing anybody, I'm just saying like, I see this face of the future and it's
like, oh, this all makes sense because they just, they've just been had so many times,
but it's forced that demographic to keep this thing that we're all striving for, which is
like big picture, like pragmatism, because there ain't no fucking like jackpot coming
if you play your cards right, like, it's more like, wait a minute, what, how does the house
always win and how do you count cards in, that's what I'm seeing a lot on Twitter and
blogs and things, is people that you would never, the silhouette they cut, you'd think,
well, this person wouldn't even show up to the conversation because there's so many buttons
being pushed before they get in the room, well, it's the opposite, no, my buttons are
getting pushed because my software and hardware are all out of date and now there's this new
generation of people who are just like born into this stuff and going like, man, there's
a lot of fucking claptrap going on about my race and my gender, but I'm not going to let
that distract me, I see you're trying to trigger me, but here's the thing, and I see a lot
of that going on, I, like, what is my fucking point, am I trying to get a medal for, I want
a young black woman to come up to me after the show and give me a teddy bear, I guess.
I mean, shut up.
And if that is you.
Let's not forget Maxine Waters has been super brave throughout all of the time.
And old black women.
And that's the thing is that for us, why do they have to be young?
It started, you know, that's years and years of activism and something that is trained
and you grow up knowing these things and it's great because you are able to pass a little
hope.
I'm glad you're so inspired.
This is a part of the public school kit from the walkie.
So I guess whenever Maxine Waters, like, responded or more importantly, didn't respond, didn't
take the bait of all that, like, that man is that he did.
She was like, that man, it has a bunch of cases against him for women's.
It was beautiful.
So I was like, you don't fuck with her in the first place, you know, you got all filthy
ass hands, Riley.
That was the crazy.
I was like, why would this do pick on her when he knows that she is not going to fuck
around on the rebuttal?
She's a black woman.
She's going to tell you that your feet stink, the pizza's burnt.
And I don't think that bathroom was clean enough.
I was excited.
I love you.
I'm telling you these things because I love you and I don't want your friends to come
over and taste your nasty ass pizza and take a shit in your shitty bathroom.
I love you.
That was miss, miss Jackson, my fourth grade math teacher calling me over to the desk after
taking everybody's lunch money and then calling me back up, Daniel, and she handed me a brush
and a nail file and said, go scrub your hands and wash your nail or wash your hands and
scrub your nails.
I turned and beat red and was like, what, and she's like, go wash your hands and scrub
your nails.
Anyways.
That's some good ass advice, though.
Dan, I tweet you every couple of days.
The Maxine Waters, I noticed, it was like, how old is she?
What is she, 70?
She's Donald Trump's age, right?
12 terms or something like that.
You want to talk about a black woman's age?
What's up, sir?
That's 42.
Bill O'Reilly made that comment and it was like, let's all have these logical debates
about, oh, you can talk about his hair, give me a break.
You're supposed to understand this shit with your gut.
That's why I'm the wisest.
You're not supposed to process this shit with your fucking.
If you're having a debate on Twitter about what, so you can make fun of his hair, think
lower in your body about this, and what you know that Bill O'Reilly meant when he responded
to her saying the president's a criminal by going like, her hair looks like James Brown.
I mean, think, if you don't know that that's racist, then it's like, we don't need to have
a debate.
The customer's always right.
It's all dog whistle, too.
Some of Bill O'Reilly, who's a professional piece of shit, has these viewers that know
their way of life is waning, and it doesn't feel better for 10 minutes.
The eight years they were addicted, Bill O'Reilly could just get on and dog whistle very lightly
about race.
They're like, well, the president in Jive was at the thing.
Just like, that wasn't a very subtle dog whistle.
I'm not good at it, because I don't see the world through that lens.
Our commander in Jive was at the summit today, but it was like, for eight years, the mythology
that was selling was, you're poor, you're at home, you're watching TV, your problems
aren't getting solved, there's a black president.
It was an easy dot to, it was like having a wicked stepmother.
And then, okay, now the big story is, let's have an election, and that was fun, too.
And then it was like, the hope and change night, the next day it felt like, we all just
started making paper airplanes and hanging out.
And then there was a lot of like, tea party, but this is different, because it's like they
won, and then they're like, and I'm still mad, of course, about what?
I'm mad about you not accepting my anger.
Well, I don't accept your anger because you won.
Well, yeah, yeah, it's no flake.
They're amped up.
Oh, yeah, I mean.
And so when he knew, he's like, I'm gonna say something a little itty-bitty racist-y,
and it's gonna, then we're gonna have a conversation about hair.
And we've all seen, how many videos have we seen of someone in a store being horrible
and the punchline for them is, this is why I voted for Trump.
Like, I've seen, I can't stop watching these things, honestly, stop me, please.
Matt, did those people that he helped to change, is there a number on that?
That number goes up and down, it's sort of like a fishing story.
It's hard to clock, you know, two dozen forty, some article had it at two hundred, which
I think is way high.
Did they go on to do his work?
Like, did they recruit?
You know, some of them do.
The guy who's at the end of the movie, Scott Shepard, who was a grand dragon and now is
sort of an activist, he texts me, like, you know, that he's working on this guy, this
other guy.
I mean, it's definitely propagating itself on some level.
Yeah, one, like, really, yeah, like, how many of them make friends with him and, I'm asking
for more data that you're going to say is like up and down, but like, that's another
question is like, do they make friends with him and then 30 years later go, my back hurts,
I can't be racist anymore here, take my grand wizard cloak, like, does that count?
I mean, I think it all counts, but like, some of it is that, I think that, I would analogize
it to like being in a crime family, like, you know, all of your kid's friends, parents
are also part of it.
If you're a grand dragon, you get paid dues, I mean, it's part of your financial structure.
It really has to uproot your life to change it.
Yeah.
But then you can get a job as a grand dragon.
You can supplement your income for sure, that's it.
Brandon, Brandon, not everybody can get a job as a grand dragon.
But there's a loophole.
I'm from Hollywood.
Well, the one in the movie in the purple robe has been, has been murdered since the
film.
So there is at least one vacancy.
Do you think that was politically motivated or was he murdered for, it was apparently
his, his, his wife, who he was leaving in her biological son, Missouri, and he died
on the same day as Prince, which is fucked up.
Yeah, I don't even fuck with that day, leave it alone.
Yeah, they, they poisoned him, so he'd be docile and then shot him for good measure is my
understanding of it.
Whoa.
Okay.
He was absolutely very thorough.
Oh God.
Yeah.
And I will say one thing to myself in response to that comment about like, oh, do they just
get old and they're too old to be racist?
But from my experience, I mean, not to say that my family has any old racists in it,
but like from my experience, you, if you don't, getting older makes you more spiritual.
It doesn't tend to make you more progressive.
Like, you know, it's not just something to do because you're old.
Like I find myself a little more God fearing every pound I gain and every time I get in
the elliptical, I just like genuflect a little bit, but, but, but, and there's that kind
of thing, no atheists in a fox hole in what is life, but God is at war with us.
He's killing us.
And we tend to anyways, but, but you don't, you don't, you kind of double down.
That's my experience is like you go to your grave without intervention, going like, dying
and by the way, I'm so glad there's no black people in my room that I'm dying and because
they'd probably stew my death, even the death.
Yeah, you know, I have a new project I'm working on that sort of links into this and a factor
that all these countries where they have populist regimes that come to power in aging population
is like the number one factor.
People are more afraid.
They want to hold on to what they have.
They're more willing to listen to convenient lies.
Everything young is like, I mean, these guys, give me a break.
Like the things that they say and tweet, like, I'm starting to get like, I'm like, I shake
my cane at them all the time.
Everything young to the older you get, it's like a threat.
Steve Martin made that hilarious joke when he hosted the Oscars, like, I love to introduce
the young filmmakers or God damn it, I can't tell a fucking joke to save my life.
I always love to meet the young filmmakers in Hollywood because they remind me of my
death, something like that.
But it's I mean, that's it in a nutshell is like, hey, your old young people seem a little
bit like poison Ivy to you, like, like they just feel icky.
Like they feel like they're pushing you off the earth.
I tried.
Look, I tried to do the same shit when I was your age, bring it.
We deserve it.
We ain't doing shit with the earth anyway.
Come on, young people.
Y'all can have this motherfucker, man.
It's all polluted and shit.
You can't smoke inside anymore.
You can fucking have it.
Brandon and I were having a conversation about this at the airport lounge when we went to
Chicago and we were talking about you kind of boiled it down to, well, we have a biological
panic inside of us because we're descended and some of us are descended from areas where
if you had an orange in your hand made the difference to whether your kids could live
or die.
And we're like, we're kind of biologically reacting to that.
I don't know.
I could be this is this is paranoid.
But there's a little there's this crazy thing where you're like, if you look at the world,
you notice that the population of white people is like way up high in the hills.
It's like Canada, United States, and then over Africa and India and shit.
It's like white people, but all the good shit is close to the equator.
It's where all the oranges and the fruit and like the the life and the dance and the fucking
carnival butt naked beautiful black women are dancing in the streets and it's crazy.
So if you lived up there in those places that are closer to the cold and you heard that
there was a world that was warm and it was it was there's a lot of fruit and there was
there was not as much disease potentially you would know you can keep your orange.
Thank you.
God damn it, Michael.
I swear to God.
This motherfucker heckled me with fruit, but I think if you if you say a noun, he produces
it.
He's trying to try to put it to you because you're from a place where maybe it's barren.
So you see these people down there and you're like they're not actively managing their resources.
We're starving. How can we get their shit? And if you look at it on a map, it looks like
the people who live up here who don't have food and warmth are coming down to get the
shit in South America and Africa.
So what our thing is is to sort of say welcome.
There's enough food for all of us.
Come on down here.
But we've been waiting for you.
We're not worried about dying out.
But if you live up in these places, you come from these places, you're like, fuck, my numbers
are decreasing.
I can't have the United States become Mexican and black and Asian.
I followed a mammoth down here.
That's right.
I busted my ass and I have I don't have a lot of fucking resources when it comes to
things that keep me healthy.
So I can negotiate with these people and try and get the shit that they have hot peppers
and red fruits and orange fruits and yellow fruits, or I can just swoop down and take
that shit.
If my numbers were failing, if black people were becoming extinct, I might try to steal
all your fucking oil.
I might try to take all your land.
I don't know.
If you believe that you're part of a genocide, if you feel like your people are dying out,
which is kind of how the thickest of the racist feel, they feel like abortion is bad because
you're fucking up our numbers.
Not because we don't believe in a woman's right to choose or that bullshit is nothing
even do with that.
They're like, you are fucking with our sheer numbers.
It's a billion Chinese.
We got to catch up.
Y'all Italian families, y'all Irish families ain't doing your jobs.
But if you think like that, then yeah, it does make sense that this tribe would be warrior-like.
But our job is to beat you to the punch and sort of be like, hey man, there's enough shit
for everybody.
Stick around.
I'm invested in your survival just like I want you to be invested in mine.
I like that model the best because it acknowledges this thing that nags at me when I look at
the world and I just feel like empirically, you could just observe the fact that if there's
one accurate thing you could say about genetics, it's that white people are so good at racism.
They're just gifted at it.
I don't want to believe that that's genetic, but at the same time, if you go purely egalitarian
and go like, well, we're all exactly the same, then you have to be subjected to this world
that keeps telling you you're wrong about your decidedly rational belief that everything's
flat and even.
And the nice different split is like, maybe there's a couple millennia of what my therapist
would call kind of like tribal memory and shit.
It's not really genetic as much as it is like kind of just, I don't know, there's like some
other field of storage and that that will burn out.
Yeah.
There's nothing you often hear too that when you're used to things being completely disproportionate,
equality feels like you're losing.
And I think there is a fair amount of proportion.
We've all had those moments where if you ever take like, I don't know, you're at a party
and somebody says, hey, we should all get high and just hang out and then like, I don't
know, something weird happens.
Somebody says, what if we all got pizza and like took off all our clothes and put it on
a bucket and you're like 23 and you're like, I've never done this drug before and pizza
sounds good and I just moved here from Portland and I don't even like these clothes and everyone's
taken them off.
And we all have these like moments like these random social experiments where somehow there's
like sometimes you like fight this roller coaster ride where you take off all your clothes,
you put it in the bucket with everyone else's clothes, the pizza comes.
Someone else is in the bathroom and you run your credit card for the pizza, but you're
all high and it was all like, and then there's just this moment where you have these like
as much as you were into the whole clothes in the bucket and everything, it's equal.
You have this paranoid flash of, oh my God, I'm being fucked over.
Like everyone here hates me.
I'm a dork.
They're laughing at me.
That's why they all have beautiful bodies.
That's why they want their clothes in the bucket.
I was like, they wanted to look at, I look like Paul Giamatti and I'm now, now I'm buying
all their food and they're fucking each other in the bathroom and they probably have more
drugs that they're not sharing with me and you just start to lose your mind.
That's not a story that actually happened to me.
There's no such thing as a, that's, that's so specific.
It has to be autobiographical.
There's a lot of detail in there and where was the, where was the clothes bucket party?
Well, you know what?
Come to, I mean, actually, how big is the bucket?
All the clothes could fit in one bucket.
I stitched some elements together there.
There was a girl I went out with once that came to a party.
I knew it!
I fucking, we were there!
Because we were at the party.
Yeah, yeah.
The underwear party?
No.
Yeah.
Before we go.
We would never put our clothes in a bucket, Brandon, we'll wait.
I briefly went out with a girl once who was like into yoga and she was, she was, she was
very attractive and, and I was lonely and I, but she was also really nice and like open
and like emotionally mature and I, we'd go to dinner and I'd go like, well, I feel like
sometimes I grapple with it.
I feel like if you have good luck on Monday, then you're going to get cancer on Tuesday.
And she'd go like, have you ever experimented with maybe just having gratitude for what
you have?
Gratitude.
Huh.
I like it.
Gratitude.
And I, and I, you know, we'd go to the beach and she'd be like, I like that you don't want
to go in the ocean and do yoga.
I'm going to do some yoga.
Is that okay?
Yeah.
All right.
Everybody does whatever they want.
That's what's great.
And she'd do like yoga.
Everything's going great.
And then I just, you know, I was on a couple of dates and we went to a party together and
then it was like, all our friends that grew up in her neighborhood were at the party and
they all had gone to the same high school or whatever their version of high school was,
like probably some academy or something.
And it was like, I was like, and they, and I was like, oh, they're all rich and like,
and then there was like, and then somebody brought over a box of underwear and they all
were like dancing and I was like, yeah, dancing, I don't do it at weddings, but I like getting
high.
I'll sit here and get high.
And then I was the only one sitting and getting high and then everyone was dancing and then
somebody brought over a box of underwear and they're all like, let's all put on the
underwear, not over our clothes.
That's not how you wear it.
They all took off their clothes.
So they all, and they all looked like Ken and Barbie dolls and they were all rich and
they're all sexy and they all did yoga and I was a fat guy sitting on the balcony with
a joint in my mouth and I was just like, fuck all these people, fuck them.
They fucking lied to me.
They tricked me.
It's just like fucking grade school.
It's just like everything.
They was laugh at the fat guy.
What if I, oh, if I, I'm so fat, I can't dance, what are you doing?
This isn't a custom, get everyone put on under, who brought a box of underwear?
I was wondering about that.
You should have gotten naked and fucked them up.
You should have put that belly on them.
My point is that it's at those junctures when you start to risk melding with people that
you're at the height and you should be.
It's that weird thing of like a Ouija board or a, or like some game you'd play at a party
where you're like, okay, so, you know, we're going to reach out and we're both going to
do this thing.
Or like, or like, yeah, the stiff as a board thing, I'm going to fall back and everyone
catch me.
It's like, just that thought that gets in your head of like, boy, this could all be leading
up to them, them just letting me hit the floor.
And wouldn't that be a gas for them?
And you hear stories where that's, that's happened to some people in this room.
You were at a sleepover and you played the game where you trust fall and someone, it
was like either a mistake or it was actual fucking targeting.
You hit the fucking floor and you, I mean, you probably don't even know how traumatic
it was.
You probably think that you probably tell that story to your friends and go, and that,
and that's when I was like, I knew that was going to happen and I'm more into Linux than
I thought it was.
And these people just are going to keep on debating between Mac and PC and I'm like off
the grid.
And, but, but, but what really, it's like, and, but you're always going to be dealing
with it, I can't believe they fucking did that to me.
It really hurt me inside and out anyways, but it's like, yeah, racism, I mean, just,
just to bring it back around, you know, isolated, isolated people are who, who falls for this
stuff in general, like that's the common theme, these are people that are isolated geographically
and personally and they find belonging through, through these ideas.
Prisoners dilemma.
Yeah.
They separate you, they come into your room and they say, your buddy says, you're a fuck
up.
You did, you robbed the bank, the, you've, the isolation makes you manipulatable.
It's exactly right.
And so now we have this internet and it's like, now we're at this age that none of us
could predict.
It's like, how do we have an internet and the historical headline of this era of political
history is fake news.
The idea that, and it's not just the idea that Breitbart is fake news or that Breitbart
calls MSNBC fake news, it's the idea that we can believe that there, we've never been
more polarized in terms of the information that we're receiving.
How is that?
That's, no one would have predicted that the internet would have caused that, but it
makes sense because it's a trust fall exercise and we're in a spasm of, are you going to
fucking drop me?
What happened?
What is there?
Back over my head or something?
What?
Wait.
Where is the spider?
Oh my God.
Jesus Christ.
What's your name?
Back over my head.
She reached up with a beer can and put a spider in it and just fucking, like, grabbed a spider
with a beer can, right?
Which means she brought it in.
It was about to land on Michael.
I thought, oh.
I should have given him an orange.
That was a, but you reached up behind, Michael, you don't realize, she put this Dr. Pepper,
don't give her the spider fucking, she put this Dr. Pepper can above your head and caught
a spider that was about to land on your hat and saved your life.
I mean, let's give her, what's your name, Madam, what's your name, Madison, Madison.
I want to say, just so we have a woman on stage for once in our lives.
I think I know Michael's first time travel question.
It's, did this Madison bitch come back in time to ruin my life?
With all the spider maps?
Get that spider can.
No, no, no.
And he just drank the spider, he just drank the spider.
I mean, that brought back a lot of the themes about taking care of each other and about
women doing the heavy lifting and the science.
So Madison described the spider and its dissent over Michael's head.
Oh, well, it was really small and translucent and it was going down and then it went back
up and then down.
How many times would you say it went up and down?
Madison.
Maybe four.
Amazing, Jeff.
But like a ninja, you used Dr. Pepper, an empty Dr. Pepper can to just harvest it.
Like it was amazing.
Was that your first time?
I'm not sure.
No, it appears you've gone with a passive ombre.
How do you feel about that?
It's gorgeous.
I don't know.
I like it.
How long had you been thinking about that?
It's a while ago.
Madison, this is the first time I've ever seen Brandon Johnson nervous.
He's losing his cool right now.
He's losing his cool.
He just saw a woman save a dude from a spider attack and now he's a little ill at ease.
Will you beat up my sister for me?
Madison?
Can I call you Madison?
Madison.
Oh, shit.
Madison, do you live in Los Angeles?
Yes.
There was a weird reaction that day.
I know that guy's on a ledge, but I'm going to ask a follow-up question.
I hope he's cool with it.
Are you going to school?
Me?
Yeah.
No, I'm done school.
Okay.
Madison, get the mic right up to your mouth.
We have a hard time here.
I'm not in school anymore.
Where did you go to school and what did you study?
Loyola University, Chicago.
Communication.
Are you a Jesuit?
I am not a Jesuit personally.
But that's a Jesuit university?
It is, yes.
I went to a Jesuit university.
I dropped out of freshman year.
I was a journalism major.
Can't really be a major in your freshman year.
Took the same class as everyone else.
Fancy myself a journalist.
So you were in Chicago.
How long have you been out of school?
You just came out to LA to apply your dream trade?
No, I've been here for four years and I graduated in 2011.
All right.
So what's the dream trade?
I moved here for screenwriting,
but now I'm working at a VR company as an art director.
Seems like a good move.
Justin Roiland, the creator of Rick and Morty, it's 9-11.
Make a wish.
Justin Roiland is a 9-11 of creators.
He's really into VR.
I mean, it seems dumb to say he's convinced it's the future.
It probably is.
He's speaking at that thing.
Yeah, I work for them.
So Justin's just speaking there, but I work for them.
Nobody gonna fuck with you, Madison.
What aspect of VR are you specializing in?
I'd like to do content creation.
As a writer?
Oh, I have an idea for a VR story or a game or something like that.
Not coding and all that crap.
So what have you noticed as a writer going into VR?
Because I look at it and I just go, oh shit, we're in trouble.
Because it kind of defies the whole three-act structure and things.
Well, maybe not that, but in the sense of like,
it seems like writing is going to become more bulk.
Why don't I ask you, what have you noticed?
Why do I always have to be such a smarty pants?
I think it'll just develop a new form of storytelling,
and it'll be a way to make things seem to create a totally new reality.
What does the writer's job become if the new form of storytelling is that
someone puts on a helmet or a pair of, hopefully, something lighter and wireless.
They put these things on and then they're in a different world.
So the things that someone has written,
they need to be even more so than we've seen in video games.
Writers can no longer just control what happens when.
Writers need to actually just fill barrels of information about characters and things.
So all right, I guess I am a smarty pants.
But are you looking forward to that? Do you think that's more fun?
I think it's really exciting. I think that it'll open up storytelling
to a lot of different people that would normally have a voice in it.
And I think that people are sort of programmed to answer in certain ways.
Like when you go to a grocery store, it's like, how much is this?
You have almost like a script already.
So when you program things to be that way, then you can kind of tailor reactions
based on a more, it's like a reality.
So it's like if you make certain rules for the world that you're in,
then you can create a totally new reality based off of these scripts that we already have.
So if I'm watching like Fast and the Furious, what is it? 10? 20 now?
I think it's 25.
So is there a way, is there a way I could just like hang out with Vin Diesel's butt the whole movie?
Yes.
That's the thing that would be amazing is like crowd sourcing writing so that like you watch,
you have like, your point of departure is actually a movie that's on rails,
an experience that's on rails, but then people keep building it outward as if it's a town.
Because it's like the way that old Western towns were built,
you went from the saloon to the horse store, I don't know.
And then it built out and out and out and out.
So that would be interesting that it's like, oh, you put on this helmet and you experience like,
oh, this guy got caught cheating by his wife and they're having this conversation as a cocktail party.
And so you experience the whole thing.
Or like Vin Diesel and the Rock are going to steal cars for the government.
Okay, well then you do it.
But then that idea that like, oh, okay, a team of writers that knew that someone was going to say,
I'm going to stay here with Vin Diesel's butt.
And that that was as exciting to a curative type of writer who was like,
because we see that in fan fiction, like there's a writer for every crevice, you know,
like someone was like...
And I'd like to shake that man's hands.
So that you end up going into these experiences as fast as the Furious 35,000 is actually,
the virtual experience is more of a sandbox.
Like, well, there's this thing that goes on where Vin Diesel and the Rock steal some cars.
But people talk about stories as if they're real life.
There's no distinction they say, because that's how our life isn't real anymore.
We say, hey, have you, oh, are you a foodie?
Have you eaten at a cabbage and dicks?
They bring a cabbage and a dick and it's like, it's an antelope penis,
but it's like, it's fooled with antioxidants.
And then they bring this butter and they make it by the table and you have to make your own butter.
And if your butter's better than theirs, you can put it on the dick.
It's like, none of it's real.
Like, it's not like, it's like, meanwhile in Lebanon, I don't know.
But like, so we're given, we're capable of experiencing the entire artificial world.
So we would actually end up saying to each other, I would be not in a real room.
I'd be talking to you guys and then we'd say, hey, have you guys,
have you guys been to, have you guys watched Fast and the Furious,
but then hung out in Vin Diesel's ass crack?
It's amazing because at midnight, Duncan Trussell comes in
and he's been doing this improv show where he's a character that steals a car out of his ass crack
and they're like, we're doing this hacking thing.
I don't know.
It would be cool to see people get different awards for different storylines.
So like, you'd get an Academy Award for the Vin Diesel butt thing, but not the movie.
Yeah, well, it'd be interesting.
It almost seems like we would give awards 30 years from now, we'll give awards to engineers
who fooled us into thinking we had free will.
There you go.
Like they'll go like, oh, this guy is like this genius or lady.
And wow, it's not even funny anymore.
Because I've played games where I thought, oh, I'm making these choices
and I'm having all this anxiety about Gwinnifer versus the Witcher 3 storylines.
I was like, ah, the brunettes being so mean.
And then I was like, wait, this could be totally on rails.
And if you set a trip to the grocery store, there's laws you don't even know you're able to break
because you're so given to just like staying in lanes.
But at the same time, you could create a situation where people feel like a rebel for buying Lucky Charms.
And it's really fucked up.
Like, we're all going to, we're all going to, we're all fucked.
I'm glad you said that.
For a minute, it wasn't dystopian enough.
Yeah, it scares me because also it seems like, well, then nobody's going to go,
oh, Dan Harmon did such a good job on anything, you know.
They'll still say that.
They'll be like, if you go out to the dumpster in the Lucky Charms Vin Diesel ass crack thing,
like there's this Steve Bannon guy and he just, if you push his left nipple,
he gives you a recipe for carrot cake.
It's Dan Harmon.
So meta.
The carrot cake recipe is a show.
He's sad.
Isn't it kind of like Westworld?
Michael.
Let's have, let's have Michael come up and ask his time travel questions.
So let's, let's, let's.
Please give a round of applause to Madison, ladies and gentlemen.
Madison.
Madison was sent through time to save Michael from a poisonous spider so that he could ask time travel questions.
Okay, for the listeners, he has a clipboard, a binder and now a sheet of paper with some handwritten notes on it.
It was a really heavy folder too.
I could hear it.
Everyone's having emotional flashbacks to that guy that had his own political party and he was.
But Michael has probably.
Wasn't that a great show?
All right.
Okay.
No.
Michael has made fantastic beer for me before, so I support him already.
Several times.
And he gave me a whole joint.
And I gave you a mannequin like.
You gave me a mannequin like.
I did.
He also gave me a Manny Petty in the parking lot.
You guys have so much fun.
All right, Dan.
But I feel like the gift of the mannequin, like, wasn't it kind of like you were like, oh, I got to give a thing.
And it was like, it was a little bit of a, it was like receiving the mannequin like, like, like took something out of me.
Did it?
It's just my emotional memory.
Maybe I'm conflating it with someone else.
Well, you had asked for it the week before.
You told us the terrible story about how your mannequin leg was destroyed.
So the week later, I brought a replacement for you.
That's all I tried to do.
Don't, don't buy into this.
I'm just a person, Dan.
No, I apologize for poisoning the well.
They don't like me anyway.
So blank slate.
You gave me a joint.
You left a note.
Time travel questions.
Here we go.
All right.
If you sent yourself an email, I gave you that scoop too, Dan.
If you sent yourself an email and you time stamped it for a thousand years in the future, would you arrive at like in this moment?
If you sent it right now, would it be there in a thousand years?
Like in that moment?
Don't look at me.
I didn't do this.
We've awakened the kraken.
That's really just a technological question about, you know, what happens to email when you time stamp it.
But I was curious of Dan's opinion of that.
Is it about email or are you basically asking, does time travel work in a back-to-the-future way or in a brick-and-morty way?
If you sent the email and it arrives there instantly, if there was some way to technologically piggyback on that and send something backwards?
You can't say technological meant piggyback.
First time.
First time forever.
Technologically piggyback.
I'm a chemical engineer.
What do you work on, Snot?
Snot, Snot.
Don't even.
The super state of this isotope has what we call a samezies rule.
Michael, we have time for one more question.
Well, I didn't even answer.
I want to parse this.
Okay, so I'm sitting at my laptop. I have a time machine waiting over there, right?
It's going to take me into the future.
Or am I throwing out the song?
You're just emailing yourself in the future.
You're going to live forever, Dan.
When you say time stamp, you mean, like, I'm marking this email.
Right now, you write an email and it arrives a thousand years from right now.
Did you just say meow?
Cat?
Is this a girl of marketing for...
I heard me.
Super trooper.
I think this is a Spencer question.
He clearly said he only wants Dan's take on this.
This seems like you're a bailiwick.
You would know what's going on.
I still don't even understand the question and it'll go faster if you explain it to me at least.
I bet Spencer does.
Or at least he knows how to break it down.
He has now asked two separate questions and the third time he's attempted to ask,
I don't think he got to the meaty part of the question.
He just posed the hypothetical, what if you sent an email?
What if you sent an email, then what?
If you could find a way...
If you time stamped it for a thousand years from right now,
if you found a way to send information back,
I mean...
This motherfucker wouldn't want to know how the email works.
Yeah, wouldn't I mean what?
Could you imagine the power of that?
Yeah, it would be crazy if you could send information back in time.
I know how dumb that sounds.
Alright, let's do a second time travel question.
We only have time for 14 more questions.
We were going to learn something from Madison.
Madison was talking about the real future.
The thing is, if Madison didn't save him from the spider, this might never have happened.
Might never have happened.
Alternate timelines.
Where's that spider back now?
Where's that Dr. Pepper can?
Alright.
The darkest timeline.
This is where it all started, all your timelines down.
Okay, let us...
Alright, so do you know how torrenting works?
Torrenting?
Yeah.
I may have procured a few copies of Photoshop 6 in my 20s.
Sam's Authorization?
Let's just say Adobe lived to appreciate my tutelage.
Free Market always finds a way.
Lime Wire.
That's all I know.
I used Lime Wire to download a couple of Linkin Park songs.
Alright, second time travel question.
The way torrenting works, it puts a bunch of pieces together.
And then makes one full copy.
Seeds?
Yeah.
If you set a computer to do that infinitely, could you start making TV shows that haven't even been played yet?
Because every week, when a new episode comes out, everybody just puts together these pieces that nobody's had all those pieces together before.
And then, what if you just sent a computer to do that an infinite number of times, wouldn't you eventually start creating content that had never existed?
Yeah, that monkey's typing.
Shakespeare.
Fox does a version of this, don't they?
I guess that is basically the million monkeys thing, plus you'd have to... Well, the thing that they always leave out of the million monkeys typing Hamlet thing is that
a million monkeys wouldn't eventually type Hamlet.
Infinite monkeys would eventually type... Well, there is no eventually because they're infinite.
They would have Hamlet within them because they'd all do random things.
That's the... Someone would have to aggregate a torrent for a TV show that didn't exist.
And yes, if you had infinite torrent seeds, torrent clients, and they all just generated random data, infinite, which is the key,
yes, you would then have to know what the TV show was in order to aggregate it, which kind of defeats the purpose, because if you know it, then you have seen it or it exists.
But if you did know what it was, would infinite torrenters be able to randomly torrent a TV show?
Yes, it's the infinite monkeys making Hamlet.
Let's hear it for Michael, everybody. Michael!
We did it!
We saved the day, we solved the future
Should I let a spider eat him?
Let's bring out Steve A.G., everybody. Steve A.G.
I want to get my A.G.R.
I'm going into a... A.G. Ray.
Thank you.
Nice suits, assholes.
Right? Spencer, are you with me?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, nice long pants, you fucks.
Oh, wait, that's not cool.
Yeah, yeah, because I wear shorts.
We were on the same side.
I'm escalating.
What's up, Steve? How you doing, man?
I'm all right. You know, I wanted to say something for a long time. There was an episode you did, like, a couple years ago,
that you talked about something that I cannot stop thinking about,
the idea of shitting someone else's pants when you die.
Can't stop thinking about it. I think about it at least twice a week.
You could wish that as an evil power...
When you die, you shit someone else's pants.
And basically, because of the retroactive social effect would be,
if you're Donald Trump with a 33% approval rating,
you're looking at a lot... You're going to tend to...
You're like, everyone that dies is going to choose me.
I'm going to be unable to leave the White House.
Well, that's why he left the roommate without signing the executive order.
He clearly had his shit.
That was the guy who was like, I just made chocolate poopies. I have to get out of here.
You'd just have guys like him would just be floating in dune tanks full of sanitized shit.
They'd invent a chemical that turned shit into diamonds,
but it emitted a fume that only killed Hispanics.
It would be like, stop shooting in Donald Trump's pants. You're not part of the solution.
Dan, I think you're being pessimistic.
Can I tell you guys one thing that I saw watch with Cody?
We've been on this Dahmer trip.
Cody and I are both writers.
It's hard to watch other people's stuff.
It finally found somebody that makes me feel less petty that she agrees.
We watch a lot of true crime stuff.
This person's being murdered. This person's being eaten.
We know a little bit of a Dahmer kick.
There's not a lot of quality Dahmer films out there.
Did you go quickly from the documentaries about them to the docu-dramas?
One of them is called Raising Jeffrey Dahmer.
It's told from the perspective of his father.
You're like, wow, this is an interesting idea.
You rent it and it's like a $20 movie.
The budget was $20.
For real, you wrote that as a sketch.
It's exactly what you write as a sketch.
It fades into the guy looking through a microscope because I guess his dad did that at work.
Then the phone rings and he's looking at the thing.
The phone rings and the guy's like, Dahmer?
He's all singsong like Zippity-Doo now.
Raising normal kids is my game. Dahmer's my name.
Walking on cloud nine.
Ordinary world.
You call the world of common day.
No thresholds crossed. That's my motto.
Dahmer.
Then he goes, he what?
He ate who?
The whole body?
It's like a Bob Newhart bit.
Why?
Well, what did he?
I don't know.
Well, hold on.
Well, goodbye.
And then he calls another friend.
He calls like Dahmer's mother.
The police just called me.
They said that Jeffrey's been arrested.
Something about a murder.
I don't know. That's what I asked them.
And he just keeps going.
Then another person calls and goes like, hello?
Multiple people.
It's like Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
Hamlet was about clearing an apartment of 17 corpses.
If that's all that happened in Hamlet,
this is Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
He fucked the corpse in the what?
And he put him in a home.
16 people?
And he just keeps, at one point he goes home.
I mean, he lives in a one bedroom apartment, Martha.
I mean, just logistically, that's him strange.
At one point he goes home and then he goes through the reporters
and they're going like, Mr. Dahmer, what about your son eating all the people?
And he's like, leave me alone.
Just leave me alone.
This is my home.
And he goes in and he talks to his wife and he goes like,
come out there.
All they want to do is just talk about Jeff eating people.
I don't know what's going on, sweetie.
I don't know.
And then they sit on the couch together and he picks up the remote for the TV
and turns it on with this determined look on his face.
And then the news is talking about Jeffrey Dahmer.
And the mindblower is, when the news is talking about Jeffrey Dahmer,
he reacts, he goes like, and turns it off.
His goal was to watch Jukes of Hazzard.
He was going to get his mind off things.
His son ate 17 people.
He turned down the news.
I thought he was doing it to get more information,
but he was perplexed.
Everyone would get over it.
It's like a broken record with this society.
It's the season finale of Silver Spoons for fuck's sake.
My son apparently ate a measurable percentage of the local community
and the local news is all fucking having a field day about it.
I don't get it.
What are all these reporters?
Anyway, I didn't want to, if I waited two weeks to talk about that,
that'd be like, you guys, two weeks ago I watched this movie.
And you would detect, you'd go like, Harmon's a little rusty.
But he doesn't have that joy when you just watch something.
Close to home for you because that's your hometown.
Yeah.
What in the anthrax is going on here?
Somebody's handed me a note.
I don't know.
And she ran up the building?
It's gonna blow!
A list of microaggressions.
We hold these truths to be self-evident.
Jeff Davis, you have on the following occasions
inflicted, abraded, and otherwise transgressed the feeples.
Just keep talking.
I have to read the Cypher serial killer font.
In Portland, they don't have dispensaries.
Dispensaries have you.
In Portland, they have pot stores.
In Oregon, of course.
We spent the last two decades, we didn't really put any elbow grease into it.
But we were like, it's technically medicine.
Come on, I'm sick.
And I had to go see a guy with a ponytail and a stethoscope.
They were like, lie about nausea.
I didn't become a pot smoker so I could lie.
Also, if you tell them a thing that you've been told to tell them,
they will then question it.
Yeah, they'll be like, really?
Because it's bullshit.
And at one point, you kind of want to be like,
hey, motherfucker, you ain't a real doctor no more anyway, bitch.
You wouldn't be here trying to write licenses for weed, motherfucker.
What's your story?
Yeah, what is the stethoscope for?
It's protesting so much.
The answer why the stethoscope is because the ponytail.
You're unwilling to give up one.
And it's awesome to listen to your heartbeat when you're high as fuck.
But Colorado and Oregon, they legalized it.
It's not medicinal.
It's fucking pot.
You just buy it.
You're there to get high.
It's so amazing.
You go in and you give a driver's license.
They send us, they buzzed us in.
You go back, the Mason jars and all that stuff, just like a dispensary.
But there's no pretense of like, here's my prescription.
And here's my thing.
You're just like, I was like, OK, so what do you got in a...
I literally did this.
I was doing it half jokingly, but then it worked.
I was like, she was like, what do you call this?
Somalia?
Or what do you go?
Somol...
Somalia.
A Somalian?
She was like a...
She was Somalian.
She boarded your ship and took you...
I said, what do you have in a 44-year-old walking around Portland, tends to check his pulse
for 20 minutes if he gets too high, but likes the...
And as she was like listening, I was like, yeah, I'm here to do a public radio show,
but I got to be sober with three hours from now, but also I can't get on the play with
too much, but also just describing like, yeah, I didn't vote for Trump, but starting to lose
faith in liberals and I just feel like nihilistic and anarchistic again, but I don't want to
feel that way and I feel like part of it is emotional.
She's like removing jars from a group as I...
Cody was watching her and she was like, was I imagining this?
She's like, no, she for real was like really listening to you and like down to the last
things, she was like, okay, that eliminates that jar and then let me smell just a bunch
of pot and then I got a joint of that pot and it was great.
It solved the...
It was great, yeah.
She might have been fucking with me, but...
In Portland, that's what they do in Portland.
They make a big deal about this one's got faux beans, it's made out of lettuce and this
one's full of mint flavor and it's good for reading and like it's a weird thing.
You go in LA, they do that a tiny bit and it's on the signage, but no one does that,
but in Portland, they have cards and they want to get your number and stuff.
It's a weird...
The language was...
I swear, I wish I had recorded it to me.
I was like, God, it's because it hurt.
It was so...
Yeah.
You couldn't write it and it was so sincere and it was like, yeah, all this chestnutty after
mellow and a calm down with a lift up and then a giggle puss and a thing.
Soaring cerebral effect.
I walked into...
If I've told you before, stop me.
It was on the road in Washington State with Ryan Stiles and Greg Proops and the Hooseline
guys and we pulled off the road.
There was a sign that said, Deli, weed, liquor.
It's like a barn in the middle of a farm.
We pull off there and Greg's like, oh yeah.
It's 10...
It's exactly 10 a.m. and they had just opened up and we walked in and there's like three,
like 24-year-old guys working there and they were clearly just high as Georgia pints.
Like they had already really gotten it on and the cast of Hooseline's anyway walks in
and 24-year-olds grew up on that because their parents would watch that with them when they
were six because that was family TV that they could all watch together and they absolutely
freaked the fuck out.
Give them a suggestion.
They forgot to charge us.
It was amazing.
Do we have business?
Yes, we have business.
We're doing our last few shows here at Meltdown.
We're going to be permanently moving over to that Starburns location.
Because in three weeks Isis is blowing up at Meltdown Comic.
Thank you, Michael, for giving us that heads up.
But we have a lot of special alumni guests that are coming on the next two weeks to send
us off in grand fashion here.
Are they supposed to be surprises?
Let's keep it a surprise.
I heard one name and I was like, oh, goodie.
It rhymes with femeno.
It's Jay Leno.
Oh, shit.
No, it's not Jay Leno.
Jay Leno is not coming.
Good.
Boo.
Well, we'll be doing that and then we'll be going, yeah, I don't know.
Do you guys still care about the tax march?
Isn't that happening?
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Thank you.
April 15th, we got to do that.
I'm exhausted too.
No, we're going.
We're doing it.
I'm hoping the march will awaken something in me because we got to do it.
I think we should all make signs.
All of us make signs and beautiful big signs to say paid protester.
Like really dress up.
I use my tax refund on this protest.
Yeah, I wish there was a way to.
We all look at our crystal balls and we go like, well, we already know that they'll
just look at record numbers of people flooding the streets of their hometowns and like saying,
show us your taxes.
But it all makes a difference.
Cynicism is the biggest tool of any repressive regime.
Anything you do that shows your participation.
Yeah, because it's not him that we're trying to affect.
It's the people watching the televisions that are just in mixed company and are like
on the bubble or up in the air are confused.
I couldn't believe the women's march was like, we're still riding that wave because it was
just sheer numbers and people who get cynical about it not having an actual effect.
Like, I mean, they can, they can kiss my grits.
That's right.
Even if just.
That's a hard line, Dan.
That's a hard line.
Even if just galvanize other people that see you doing it, that is something right.
As I said before, imagery for this illiterate asshole is everything.
He looks at pictures, he sees them and they affect him and it bothers him.
Let's go out and make pictures happen because he reads pop-up books for a living.
And it's the undecideds, which is we always joke about that.
Like, how could you be undecided during the election?
But it's like more like, are you undecided between being a Bernie Krat and a Neil Libby
or something like that?
Like, we're coming up on a huge hurricane of stuff.
Like, we need, to me, when I'm like getting in arguments or watching arguments online,
I'm always thinking of the people that are nowhere in sight.
They're just the people watching.
And that's why I always have to try to remind myself like, ah, are you the smartest, funniest person in this conversation?
Or are you the angriest piece of shit that's like wishing?
I see, I'm starting to see these arguments erupting between different factions where people,
people that would have us believe this is about healthcare and universal healthcare,
in fact, meaning they want, ostensibly, everybody to be healthy,
are saying when they don't like the way an argument is going,
well then burn in fucking hell and enjoy eight years of Trumpy piece of shit.
And it's like, alright, well that's bumping up against your universal healthcare.
And I'm not, and I don't want to even poke that hornet's neck.
The good experience on this last trip we did, we did Akron, Ohio, Indianapolis, and Louisville, Kentucky.
And Akron's a little more red than Indianapolis, which actually you can find,
like it's kind of blue in Indianapolis.
And I had a resist pin on, that Greg Proops, some fan of his gave me,
like a little safety pin that had beads that resist on it.
And in Akron, they kind of see it, they notice it, they don't talk about it.
And Indianapolis, people came up and said, thank you, like awesome.
And we did our show and we banged on Mike Pence because he's from there.
We banged on him hard and the crowd almost stood up and fucking cheered.
Because in Indianapolis, they're like, fuck that guy.
Let's go find out where he lives.
He sold us out, someone else lives there now.
But like, let's still go, let's still go.
But you know that, I mean, we talked earlier about how the internet is making some people feel like,
like the plague is at their door and that's where it's like crucible for racism and stuff.
And that's another thing is like, if that person, that mythical construct,
that person that has been feeling from reading their Facebook feed that someone took their jarb,
like they're also going to see, like they need to see,
and they'll want to dismiss it.
They're like, oh, look at all those lesbians and biracials just wanting to take my jarb
and they're marching about it.
But there's people that are on the bubble that are in the air that are like,
you know, I feel this pressure.
I feel like the world's changing and I'm scared of the world and all this stuff.
And I think that's why it's so important that those signs are really funny
and that there's like happy looking people out there and it's like,
and shit doesn't get fucked up and set on fire.
My favorite sign was a sign in Scotland during the Muslim ban marches
and they marched in Glasgow and shit.
And a sign said, your ma was an immigrant, your absolute roaster.
I don't even know what a roaster means.
It's fucking, you absolute roaster.
You know what a roaster means.
Also at the end of the day, the reason that we amass is to show that there are more of us
and that you can have 750,000 of us show up very peaceably.
75 of us show up armed.
And at the point that we all start to head out to the town square,
the government and people in charge should sort of be like, shit.
Let's go ahead and talk to these people.
So one of the reasons you want to go to rallies and you want to go to marches
is so that we don't have to be in those smaller numbers having to do fiercer shit.
Protests scare the establishment.
They really do and letters and calls and all that shit.
It's TV and it's fucked up, but I'd rather go out there and be silly
and have a tambourine or be a fucking noisy asshole
and do it every goddamn weekend, anytime you're free and do it,
because we have an idiot president who hates turning on the TV
because it's all he watches, it's all he does.
He doesn't read books, he doesn't read the paper.
He turns the TV on and if he sees imagery of people all over the country
and all over the world mocking him, it affects him.
And it's like a Dick Clark special.
If you're living in a town where you're actually in the minority as a liberal,
my heart goes out to you and God knows I haven't done anything difficult during all of this shit.
But just as a suggestion, it's like, oh, there's not going to be 17,000 people
in my town flooding into the square and also there might be a bunch more people
showing up and kind of glaring at me that are on the other side.
All the more reason to make your sign funny so that you have the truth on your side
and the humor on your side and the high road on your side.
If there's 50 of you and it's like CNN's still going to cut to that during that morning.
The image of the little girl holding a sign in DC that said, Trump eats farts.
That's heavy fucking hitting.
What were you going to say?
It was just very important to think about who the audience is for.
So it's important that it could be funny, but also it should be,
excuse me, patriotic and nonviolent and all those things.
It should speak to a portion of the country.
I know it's got all my voice here.
Are you on a press tour? You've been talking a lot?
I have been talking a lot. I've been known to...
Or is the Klan trying to suppress your words?
What does Jarba mean?
Easy, easy.
Get off me, devil!
I mean, we still have some time left.
Dan, I don't think we're done with your Gary Busey impression.
I think that has to come back at least for a moment.
I think maybe in rap form.
I think that we have to pass it down the line.
Maybe Gary Busey comes in and does a verse?
I'll do a Gary Busey rap just from the top of the shit.
Are you ready to rock on that one?
Do you really? Is that what you want?
I just want to talk about that weird ceremony that Levy did on the sidewalk
where they put a cue by his head.
Oh, yeah, he got tifled.
Tifled.
Tilemon? Millenon?
They were trifling with him.
Tiflin.
I don't know.
Levy sent us pictures.
Levy was walking down the sidewalk in a...
He tied up his arm?
That was weird.
What?
Levy grabbed the mic and break it down for us.
And they put him...
Levy, ladies and gentlemen, make some noise.
Hello, hello.
I mean, look at this hair.
He just sniped me.
I was walking down the street in Beverly Hills.
He was like, you're Jewish.
I was like, yeah?
He was like, you got to do tiflin.
I mean, I didn't...
I know what to say.
I don't really want to.
Did you know what tiflin was?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Because I don't.
Break it down for the goyim.
I mean, I don't know exactly what it is, but I remember...
It's like, certainly a mitzvah.
Right.
I remember in college, the local rabbi knew who I was
because my roommate was religious a little bit.
And he introduced me.
He was a good guy.
We went to a class once where everyone got to discuss Judaism
and God and whatever.
And I was like, I don't know.
And everyone would say their thing.
It was an open discussion.
And he liked having me there because I represented the side
that doesn't believe.
All right.
So you're setting us up, you're saying, ah, he's a character.
I'm kind of a secular Jew is what you're saying.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm culturally Jewish, definitely.
But I'm not practicing.
Right.
But he won one time.
And college was like, oh, Levy, come on, come on.
You got to do some tiflin.
And I was like, I don't want to.
In the same situation.
Right.
I was in this restaurant on campus.
And then there was another guy on the other side of the room.
And he's saying, come on, you got to have this thing.
It's really delicious.
And then it broke into this argument between the people
saying, taste great.
Tiflin.
No.
It's a reference to a light beer campaign from the 80s.
I couldn't even.
I can't believe I didn't think of that.
I couldn't.
I thought it was the thing you did between acts.
There's going to be a magician.
And then you do something to tiflin.
And then another act comes on.
And then you'll do another thing to tiflin.
All right.
So you were familiar with tiflin.
The photos I saw, you looked like a Hellraiser.
Like a Cenobite.
The black plastic cube on his head.
It's a little wild.
Yeah.
It doesn't look ancient at all.
It looks cybernetic.
What the fuck is tiflin?
I've seen the cube before.
Yeah.
It's like this.
Like a Hellraiser cube?
Cody described it as some kind of like S&M thing with straps.
Because you had a belt wrapped around your arm.
Yeah.
It's like they wrap it around your finger.
How did they start?
You said, yes, I'll do tiflin.
And then he starts wrapping your arm.
Or did he touch the cube too?
He was just like, come on, come on.
It takes 30 seconds.
And I was like, I don't really.
And he just kept getting it.
He got it out.
And I was like, all right.
Well, I guess I have to.
And then what is the process?
Like what were the procedures?
And then he, OK.
So then he starts wrapping it around.
And then it stays on your arm in this place.
And he's telling, he's giving you Hebrew words to repeat.
It's a prayer, I guess.
And then he wraps around my head.
And it looks like I got this cube in my head.
You're not on a public street in this country?
Yeah.
In front of Earth Cafe.
And everyone's fucking watching me do this thing.
And I was like, I don't want to do this.
I don't know what I'm saying.
Did he ever say, and I don't want to, you know, look.
He gave me a piece of matzah for Passover.
Thank you for your fucking tiflin.
Here's a piece of matzah.
And that's not like a Dorito.
That's not like a treat, right?
It's like a flavorless, it's like a soda cracker.
You eat it because you can't, you're not supposed to eat.
Yeah, you eat it because you can't.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, no.
I'm saying it like, I'm not...
I have a Jewish question.
I don't know.
Oh, nice save.
Nice save.
I have a Jew question.
I don't know that I'll be able to answer it.
I have a question for the Jew answer.
I got a Jew question.
Let's just have a quick Jew and a...
No, no, no.
Levy.
Wow, that's fucked up, dude.
Levy, answer me this.
Is there a worse breakfast than matzah bray?
What?
No, matzah bray's not that bad.
Great, that's...
It's eggs and crackers.
It's...
Yeah.
What's wrong with that?
It looks terrible.
I've never tried it.
What about this kid?
There's a guy in the photo.
He looks like he's your age.
He's like a young kid.
Yeah, he's a young...
But he's acidic.
He's got the whole Indiana Jones hat in his suit.
And he's like...
So he's like taking it to the thing.
I'm not trivial.
Yeah, and my mom is laughing at me.
He's taking pictures like,
Hi, you fucking guy wrote this.
But how did you have those pictures?
Because the pictures are of you.
Yeah, my mom took them.
Oh, your mom?
You were with your mom?
Yeah.
Oh, that's nice.
She's the only one laughing right now.
Did you do it because you were with your mom?
No, I didn't want to do it at all.
Was your mom like, that's bullshit?
I think even she was like uncomfortable.
Like, oh, I don't...
Did he try to fill in hers?
What?
No.
Do women...
No, he's not allowed to touch her.
He has to seal himself in a...
I don't know.
Levy, two-part GNA question.
All right.
So there's a roving pack of acetum that are...
There was too young roving pack.
And they...
They had a bag of matzas.
And they profiled you as a Jew.
I was walking down the street and they went,
Hey, you're Jewish.
And I was like...
And they...
Here's a piece of matza.
Also, now you have to do to fill in because you took it.
Like, kind of...
Oh, that's the worst.
That's like when someone gives you their CD
and is like actually to donate you.
Yeah, it's like the raptus on Hollywood Boulevard
or in Times Square or something.
Oh, they gave you the matza first.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, see.
I forgot that detail.
I'm sorry, sorry.
That's fucking blackmail.
Yeah.
And then it's like, you're going to give the matza back?
You know, not to put your final point on it.
It's my sugar.
I just...
I...
I just can't...
I don't want to turn into like a xenophobic dog pile thing
of like, what's with you crazy people?
No, I just thought of that incident on that street.
Like, that guy, was he...
Like, how did you feel about him emotionally as a person?
Like, were you mad at him or did you feel like a connection?
No, I mean...
Would you save a spider from going down his head?
I don't know.
Like, compared to like if a pain handler drew you in
to a fucking word problem or...
Yeah, that's kind of...
...someone selling a CD up there.
It's kind of how I felt, but...
Because of the Jewish connection, I don't know.
Like, he was only going through...
Like, what did you feel?
I felt violated.
I knew I was doing a mitzvah, but I felt violated.
But would you say that he was...
Would it be accurate to say if I was a...
That he was like...
Was it like if you were Catholic, you know, like a lapsed cat?
Right.
Like, was there a guilt?
Like, you know, you didn't want to be a bad...
He prayed on my Jew guilt.
Right.
See, that was present in your head, right?
You're like, I'm doing this because...
Yeah, the entire time, I was...
I didn't know how to say no to the...
I mean, I don't know if...
I wouldn't know how to say no to him if I was...
If he...
But the...
It could have been anyone else asking me anything.
You're Jewish to me.
And I probably wouldn't have known how to get out of that situation.
I was just doing a show in Utah, and there was a couple Mormon guys,
and they would make you put on magic underwear.
True story.
Gary Busy rap.
The show is almost over, Dan.
I mean, did he even...
Did he say, well, he was rapping that...
Because that belt looked like it took so long to rap.
It was real tight.
Did he ever say, like...
He was very precise.
He was rapping around, and he'd go,
Thanks for doing this, by the way.
A lot of people don't do it.
No.
The funny thing is, we went into...
It's a tough corner.
We went into his store, like a couple stores down,
and then my mom was holding this piece of matzah,
and this guy walked in, and he was like,
Oh, Jesus, he got you too.
Oh.
This guy, but this guy...
Oh, shit.
This guy, he walked in double fisting matzahs,
so maybe he did a better job than me.
And he's like, by the way, I'm Italian.
I just haven't had a haircut in a while.
He's that religious.
What's the end game for this person?
He's saving souls?
I don't know.
Yeah.
Yeah, tomorrow's the first day of Passover.
So he's just having a good time?
I don't know.
I didn't ask him.
I just felt too bad to...
I was frozen.
Give orange scene chances as our...
I believe they follow the Rebbe in Brooklyn,
and it's like a specific thing.
They're not...
It's not normal Jewish stuff.
It's like a very specific thing.
Like, you can be raised Jewish as I was,
and DeFellin will never come up in your life.
Well, yeah, we know it's extreme.
Yeah.
But, yeah, I think...
I'm kind of wondering, like, is it in a...
I guess evangelical isn't the right word.
It's like that, though, yeah.
But it's like...
It's the idea that you're supposed to actually...
But it's...
Which is anathema to the normal spirit of Judaism.
Like, you're not supposed to actively recruit.
Right.
So it is like when a black dude hands me a rap CD.
It's identical to that.
It's like literally the same thing.
I'm like, God damn, bro.
All right, man.
Fuck it.
$2,000 laptop, $3 CD.
Fucked up.
So it's like, you know...
Yeah, it's like waspy white privilege.
That's another thing.
Like, I would never be walking down a sidewalk.
There's nothing that anybody could, like, ply me with.
You know?
Like, that guy would, like, have a swastika.
He'd be like, hey, you're not proud enough to be a, like,
a midwestern white guy.
And I'd be like, well, you're not going anywhere with that.
Like, I have no problem.
You won't be allowed in the restaurant I'm going to.
Like, it's...
Well, but it's like, it's interesting.
I mean...
You can always just run away, too.
You should have just run away.
Just sprinted?
Yeah.
Like, yeah.
Yeah, it's true.
I could have.
Yeah.
You see what he's wearing?
Is that...
Put a beat on, Zach.
Yo.
Gary Busey.
Wrapping.
I'm Gary Busey.
It's made up.
But here's the thing.
My name is Gary Busey.
I'm here to say,
I fucked your mama in a bale of hay.
But I'm Jesus Christ with a spirit.
I fucked your mama.
She fears it.
I went inside her head.
I came out of her pussy and made bread.
I'm rhyming the usual way.
But an open mic eagle would say,
Let go of your crutches.
Don't think about your mama.
I'm Gary Busey.
Let's go to the desert.
Let's stare at the sun.
I fall off a motorcycle.
I've just begun.
I didn't wear a helmet.
Fucked your mama so hard.
No, I didn't.
Because that's what you think I did.
Okay?
But here's the thing.
I'm Gary Busey.
G to the A to the R to the Y.
I fucked your mama.
No, I didn't.
B to the U to the S-E-Y.
I didn't fuck anybody.
Here's why.
I'm apotheosized.
I'm part man, part God.
Gary Busey.
First name G.
Second name B.
I lost the rest of the names.
C.
If you're beyond language,
you can start to truly see what you mean.
I'm a person.
You start to truly see what you mean.
I'm a P.
A split P.
Half is me.
The other half is not me.
It's the other half I see.
It's a mirror of me.
A split P mirror of me.
When I sit in the pool,
I think about the C.
And all the salt.
Tic.
Charles Kuralt, Gary Busey, with a, go to the sun, I fuck, no, no, I didn't fuck your
mama.
Okay, go on, just give me a second, I'm gonna bring it all home.
We talked about race, we talked about black, we talked about white, we brought it all back,
I'm Gary Busey, I got a dent in my head, I can see things that you won't see until you're
dead.
I'm a spirit, I go up to heaven, do you know a movie I love, Seven?
Not just because it rhymes with heaven, because that would be bad rap, I wouldn't be flowing,
I'd be going, I'm gonna call an Uber and not a Lyft because my politics don't hold
up to shit, I want an SUV because I want to be left in peace when I pee in the back seat
of the car while I play Minecraft, try to go farther than I have, I'm playing a skyblock
mind, mud pack, that's the kind where you start on just a block of dirt and then you
have to make everything that usually is not worth that much, you have to sift dirt to
make iron, it's fucking crazy, Gary Busey, Native American, philosophy, celebrity apprentice,
motorcycle, spirit, hear it, Gary Busey, I'm gonna open a hardware store, but the counter
is gonna be where everything's kept, because I don't believe in ownership, if you come
in for a hammer, you sell it to me, or whatever you're building, it's already been built.
No, time travels the dot you connect, I'm bigger than that, I'm bigger than everything,
I'm bigger than the American Eagle, don't put it on an endangered list, let it be free
of bureaucracy, if there's a thing that you don't need a law to protect, that's the true
thing we should aspire to, anarchy, I'm a bald eagle with a dented head, search of
a thermal vent that can keep my wings aloft, my bones are still hollow, I'm looking for
the rabbit of racism, and when I see it, I'll dive down at 600 miles per hour and scoop
it up and take it up to the tower where my babies are kept in a little nest and I'll
just eat the head and leave them the rest and they'll eat it down and say good, now
race is done, we're made of wood, if you were made of wood you wouldn't be black or white,
you'd just be oak and then you'd have the different kind of sight, and you could make
furniture at my hardware store out of ourselves, you'd be a cabinet, you wouldn't be a black
person, you'd be a cabinet, with drawers instead of thoughts, I got buck teeth, I'm like Nick
Nolte with an overbite, I'm John Lithgow, oh shit, John Lithgow, I'm John Lithgow and
I'm here to say I'm gonna come into your wrap and save the day, I got a circular mouth like
I'm a lamprey, I'm John Lithgow, let me be free, wave your hands in the motherfucking
air, John Lithgow doesn't give a fucking care, black women gonna save the world, I'm
John Lithgow, fucking every girl, I got a dick as wide as Harry, from the Henderson's,
it's pretty scary, I was third rock from the sun, I'm gonna put my dick inside your
butt, oh I love biracial women, I wanna have an orgy with biracial women, I love millennial
biracial women, I'm John Lithgow, my mouth is circular, like a story and like a young
ripe titty, am I a hero or a villain, I'm just fillin', you're mine with, what, sorry
what, to fillin', oh to fillin', oh god, I'm sorry, Lithgow, L-I-G-H-G-O-W, thank you for
coming to Harvard Town everybody, that's my nice job, Steve Levy, Steve A.G., oh Brandon
Johnson, incredible, incredible, Michael Madison, Matt Ornstein, I forget, watch Accidental
Courtesy by Matt Ornstein, is there anything else you wanna plug where you didn't even
ask you that, are you working on anything else?
Yes, thank you so much, I am working on a new one, so hopefully you'll have me back
next time again, but in the meantime Accidental Courtesy is on Netflix, and I wanted to thank
my editor Ben Barnes who I hear out there laughing, and thank you so much for having
me.
We'll take that out in posts, it's a little joke for him.
Thank you Matt, I'm Jeff Davis, you're Comptroller, Dan Harmon, you're Mayor everybody, thank
you so much, Spencer Crittenden as well, drive fast and take chances everybody.
Did you get any of that?
It's a good show.